we know that the XOR of equal numbers will
cancel each other
Using this fact we can easily find the missing number
in the given
array let us see how first let us take this
array of size four 1435 and then let us
write All the numbers from one to n plus one here
n equal to four
So write numbers from 1 to 5
That is 12345
Now if we perform XOR these two arrays the equal
numbers will cancel each other and the missing number will
be present at the XOR result
So here the numbers 11 will cancel each other
44 cancel each other
Similarly numbers 33 and 55 will cancel each other and
the missing number two will be present at the XOR
result
So the logic is very simple
declare variable to store the XOR result say result
first XOR all the numbers present in the given array
with the variable result and then XOR all the
numbers from one to n plus one with the above XOR
variable result
Now the missing number will be present in the variable result so we can return it.